Add AWS and Azure quickstarts (#4176)
coder/coder: docs/quickstart/aws.md

## Requirements 

> This quickstart assumes you have access to admin level access to AWS. 

Reviewer: "access to admin level access to AWS" 🤔

Author: i wrote this without figuring out the min perms to get coder working. hence requiring admin access

Reviewer: Yeah I mean the word `access` is redundant. I think you're referring to the `AdministratorAccess` policy?

> This quickstart assumes you have access to `AdministratorAccess` policy to AWS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This quickstart assumes you are assigned the `AdministratorAccess` policy to AWS. 
```

I think this reads better without the double "access".

## Setting Up Security Groups for EC2

To set up a security group for an EC2 instance, navigate to the AWS EC2 Dashboard. In the side panel click `Security Groups` .

In the upper right hand corner, click `Create Security Group` . In the creator screen, name the security group something relevant to the EC2 instance you will create.

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws1.png">

For ease of use, we are going to set this up using the simplest rules.

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws2.png">

Create a new `Inbound Rule` that allows for SSH from your computer’s IP address.

You’ve now created a security group that will be used by your EC2 instance.

## Setting Up Your EC2 instance

> On the EC2 dashboard, click `Instances`. This will take you to all the EC2 instances you have created. Click `Launch New Instance`. Name the EC2 instance following the naming convention of your choice.

Reviewer: We should probably mention that we're creating the instance for the coder server, not the workspaces. I'm thinking about the naive user that clicks to this Quickstart from the website.

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws3.png">

For this tutorial, we are going to launch this as the base Ubuntu server. 

> For the `Create key pair`, we are using ED25519 and .pem as we will SSH into the instance later in the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `Create key pair`, we are using ED25519 and `.pem` as we will SSH into the instance later in the tutorial.
```

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws4.png">

> Next, under `Network Settings`, change your Firewall security group to Select existing security group and from the resulting dropdown, select the security group you created in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, under `Network Settings`, change your Firewall security group to select existing security group and from the resulting dropdown, select the security group you created in the previous section.
```

You don’t need to change anything else - click `Launch Instance`.

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws5.png">

It’ll take a few minutes for it to show up in your existing instances, so take a break as it starts up.

## SSHing into the EC2 instance

If you’ve launched a new EC2 instance following the previous steps of this tutorial, find the username for the EC2 instance [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/connection-prereqs.html). The version launched in the previous steps was a version of the Amazon Linux so the username is `ubuntu`.

> You will also need the IP address of the server. Click on the server in the `Instances` dashboard, and copy the IPv4 address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also need the IP address of the server. Click on the server in the `Instances` dashboard, and copy the IPv4 address.
```

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws6.png">

> Now that we’ve gathered all the information you will need to ssh into your EC2 instance, on a terminal on your local system, navigate to the `.pem` file downloaded when you created the EC2 instance. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we’ve gathered all the information you will need to SSH into your EC2 instance, on a terminal on your local system, navigate to the `.pem` file downloaded when you created the EC2 instance. Run the following command:
```

```sh
chmod 400 [mykey].pem
```

> This adds the required permissions for ssh-ing into an EC2 instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adds the required permissions for SSH-ing into an EC2 instance.
```

Run the following command in terminal, where `mykey` is the security key file, `username` is the username found above for the relevant EC2 operating system image, and the `ip-address` is the IPv4 address for the server: 

```sh
ssh -i [mykey].pem username@ip-address
```

Congrats you’ve SSH’d into the server.

## Install Coder

> For this instance, we will run Coder as a service command, however you can run Coder a multitude of different ways. You can learn more about those [here](https://coder.com/docs/coder-oss/latest/install).

Reviewer 2: I missed this in my first pass

```suggestion
For this instance, we will run Coder as a system service, however you can run Coder a multitude of different ways. You can learn more about those [here](https://coder.com/docs/coder-oss/latest/install).
```

Coder runs as a system service under a system user `coder`. The `coder` user will require access to the AWS credentials to initialize the template and provision workspaces.

Run the following command to create a folder for the AWS credentials to live in:

```sh
sudo mkdir /home/coder/.aws
```

Then run the following commands to copy the credentials and give the `coder` user access to them:

```sh
sudo cp ~/.aws/credentials /home/coder/.aws/credentials 
sudo chown coder:coder /home/coder/.aws/credentials
```

Navigate to the `./aws-linux` folder where you created your template and run the following command to put the template on your Coder instance. 

```sh
coder templates create
```

Congrats! You can now navigate to your Coder dashboard and use this Linux on AWS template to create a new workspace!

## Troubleshooting

If you’re not sure if Coder is running correctly as a system service, use the command `systemctl status coder` to show the status of the Coder process.

To stop running Coder as a system service, run the following command: `systemctl stop coder`. 

> When you run ` journalctl -u coder.service -b`, there’s a chance that it may not show any logs, preventing you from seeing the url for the running Coder instance. Use the command `systemctl stop coder` to stop the Coder system service, and run the command to start Coder as a system service again. You can also use the command `systemctl restart coder` to quickly restart the service. 

Reviewer: Should use journalctl grep

> When you run ` journalctl -u coder.service -b`, there’s a chance that it may not show any logs, preventing you from seeing the url for the running Coder instance. Use the command `systemctl stop coder` to stop the Coder system service, and run the command to start Coder as a system service again. You can also use the command `systemctl restart coder` to quickly restart the service. 

Reviewer: Where did you end up with the journalctl issue? If you really want to tell them to restart, then why not just instruct `systemctl restart coder` and remove the sentence about `systemctl stop coder`?

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws5.png">

It’ll take a few minutes for it to show up in your existing instances, so take a break as it starts up.

## SSHing into the EC2 instance

If you’ve launched a new EC2 instance following the previous steps of this tutorial, find the username for the EC2 instance here. The version launched in the previous steps was a version of the Amazon Linux so the username is `ubuntu`.

You will also need the IP address of the server. Click on the server in the `Instances` dashboard, and copy the IPv4 address

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws6.png">

Now that we’ve gathered all the information you will need to ssh into your EC2 instance, on a terminal on your local system, navigate to the .pem file downloaded when you created the EC2 instance. Run the following command:

```sh
chmod 400 [mykey].pem
```

This adds the required permissions for ssh-ing into an EC2 instance.

Run the following command in terminal, where `mykey` is the security key file, `username` is the username found above for the relevant EC2 operating system image, and the `ip-address` is the IPv4 address for the server: 

> ``` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

```

## Run Coder

First, edit the `coder.env` file to enable `CODER_TUNNEL` by setting the value to true with the following command:

```sh
sudo vim /etc/coder.d/coder.env
```
<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws7.png">

Exit vim and run the following command to start Coder as a system level service:

```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now coder
```

The following command will get you information about the Coder launch process

```sh
journalctl -u coder.service -b
```

This will return a series of Coder logs, however, embedded in the launch is the URL for accessing Coder.

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws8.png">

In this instance, Coder can be accessed at the url `https://fccad1b6c901511b30cf2cf4fbd0973e.pit-1.try.coder.app`.

Copy the URL and run the following command to create the first user, either on your local machine or in the AWS EC2 instance terminal. 

```sh
coder login <url***.try.coder.app>
```

Fill out the prompts - be sure to save use email and password - these are your admin username and password.

You can now access Coder on your local machine with the relevant  `***.try.coder.app` URL and logging in with the username and password.

> 

Reviewer: This section is repeated verbatim above.

## Creating and Uploading Your First Template

> First, run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of possible templates to use. This tutorial will show you how to set up your Coder instance to create a linux based machine on AWS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `coder template init` to create your first template. You’ll be given a list of possible templates. This tutorial will show you how to set up your Coder instance to create Linux based machines on AWS. 
```

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws9.png">

Press `enter` to select `Develop in Linux` on AWS template. This will return the following: 

<img src="../images/quickstart/aws/aws10.png">

> To get started using the AWS template, install the AWS CLI and put the credentials in this account. Follow these instructions to install the AWS CLI and add your credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we must install the AWS CLI and authorize the template.
```

> Since we're running Coder as a system level process, a system user `coder` is created in order to run Coder services. The `coder` user will require access to the AWS credentials to initialize the template and provision workspaces.

Reviewer: ```
Since we're running Coder as a system level process, a system user `coder` is created in order to run Coder services.
```
This line doesn't make sense to me because running Coder as a systemd service doesn't require running as an unprivileged user, that was a decision we made.

Author: never said it was unpriv however it does run as a different user?

Reviewer: I'm using "unpriv" to refer to the non-root user. I think my confused interpretation stems from the use of the "system level process" language, when it's the systemd unit creating the user and not the `coder server`. I believe you've rephrased a lot of the doc so I will re-review when requested.

> Since we're running Coder as a system level process, a system user `coder` is created in order to run Coder services. The `coder` user will require access to the AWS credentials to initialize the template and provision workspaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Coder service runs under the `coder` user, so we must authenticate `coder` with AWS before it can initialize the template and provision workspaces.
```

Author: we dont actually end up authenticating the coder user but instead just copying and giving it access to the aws credentials.  solution is a blend of the two sentences above

Reviewer: I'm confused by what you mean. The copying of the credentials into the `coder` user is authenticating it in my eyes?

Author: when i think authentication i think using the established pattern to authenticate a specific user - ie using aws config command when on the coder user to give it credentials - in this case we are copying over the credentials from authenticating the ec2-user over to the coder user

Reviewer: Okay, I can see it that way too. My goal was to compress the words as much as possible.

Reviewer 2: How about a compromise? 

> Since the Coder service runs under the `coder` user, we need to move the AWS credentials there.

`aws configure` doesn't really do any authentication either, it's just a utility to generate a text file. The real authentication happens when `coder templates <create/push>` or `coder workspace <create/update>` occurs.

Author: regarding word compression my dev rel prerogative is to be as verbose as possible to any possible avoid confusion.

Reviewer: There's a middle ground.. After we replace "system level process" with "system service", this paragraph becomes:

```
Since we're running Coder as a system service, a system user `coder` is created in order to run Coder services. The `coder` user will require access to the AWS credentials to initialize the template and provision workspaces.
```

"Since we're running Coder as a system service, a system user `coder` is created in order to run Coder services." I think would need rework.

Run the following command to create a folder for the AWS credentials to live in:

```sh
sudo mkdir /home/coder/.aws
```

Then run the following commands to copy the credentials and give the `coder` user access to them:

```sh
sudo cp ~/.aws/credentials /home/coder/.aws/credentials 
sudo chown coder:coder /home/coder/.aws/credentials
```

> Navigate to the `/aws-linux` folder where you created your template and run the following command to put the template on your Coder instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `./aws-linux` folder where you created your template and run the following command to put the template on your Coder instance. 
```

`/` implies root

## Requirements 

> This quickstart assumes you have the ability to assign  `AdministratorAccess` policy to AWS. 

Reviewer: Sorry for all the back and forth.. this should be "you are assigned `AdministratorAccess` right? Not necessarily the ability to assign the role...
